There are five different semantic sources drawn together in this poem.  
The scene set is the Restaurant, with words like ‘gourmet’ and ‘menu’; the ‘pure white cloth’ of the tables, fingerbowls and napkins and the swish of the green door which separates the diners from the kitchen. There are words from the menu. Tossed lightly, braised, bastes, and the food itself; tripe, charcuterie, sauces, the claret.  
The restaurant terms sit uneasily alongside a vocabulary of live animals; of cows, of something which once flew, bleat, and intermediary words; offal poultry fish; oxtail, kidney, in the context of the mention of live animals there is ambiguity in the ‘suckling pig’ and is the ‘swish’ the baize door, or ‘of oxtails’?  
But among the animal references are images of the humans, increasingly animal-like.  
‘capped teeth chatter, and ‘the woman chewing’ moves to ‘leg, saddle and breast’ which seems to refer to the wife, just as the pure white cloth is at once the table cloth, and the bed where she ‘must sleep with her husband’. Sweat ‘bastes’ his face.  
Another layer of vocabulary picks up the human emotions. ‘Secret dreams’, ‘languish’, ‘will absolve guilt’, ‘these hearts know no love’, ‘beyond reproach.’ There is more ambiguity in ‘on their beds they lie’ Bed of saffron rice, contrasted with the unhappy marriage bed.  
The last layer of vocabulary is the language of crime: ‘blood’, ‘knife’, ‘lists the recent dead’, ‘to wipe the evidence’, ‘to gag the groans’, ‘will absolve guilt’.  
She also slips in a writer’s observation, ‘calf to veal- this is the power of words’.  
By the time she reaches the moral line ‘you are what you eat’ she has thoroughly merged the human and animal, guilty and innocent, living and dead.

---

Carol Ann Duffy creates an omnipotent observer, who makes a dramatic monologue in the poem “A Healthy Meal”, criticizing people as inhuman for taking animal meat, showing her vegetarian eco-feminist consciousness. The opening lines, “The gourmet tastes the secret dreams of cows / tossed lightly in garlic” (lines 1-2) implies that the cows are once eaten, with their dreams turning into a secret. The oxtails are shown as “languish”, as if of life but losing life “on an earthen dish”(line 3). When the wishbones and pinkies become food for human beings and are put on the table, people are guilty of killing animals though they wash their hands in the finger bowls. The expression “capped teeth” is used to refer to people who chew animal kidney or bird breast, exposing the fact that animals are so maltreated when alive that their hearts “knew no love”, and later, when put on the saffron rice, they show complaint towards people for their brutal and loveless heart. The question about what claret is like draws people’s attention, and “Blood” as an answer is severe criticism of people’s cruelty. Then the speaker focuses attention on one table, on which “the language of tongues is braised in Armagnac” (line 9-10), indicating that animals are of tongues and of their own languages, just like us human beings, but they are deprived of equal rights to human beings and turned into food for people. By personalizing animals in the poem, Duffy shows animals as equal to human beings, who is superior to animals because of power, and turn out to be as cruel as wild animals. The picture of the woman “chewing chuckling pig” and “must sleep with her husband later”(lines 10-11) shows her as of animal instinct of eating meat and making love. The picture of “a fat man” ordering his rare (line 15), with sweat on the face, with the words “There are napkins to wipe the evidence”(line 16), can be considered as evidence of swear and having eaten animals, revealing and echoing with the word “guilt” in the opening stanza. The speaker personalizes the animal by saying “Leg, / saddle and breast bleat against pure white cloth”(lines 11-12), as if these animals can make noises to show their sufferings. The “groans” these animals make in the abattoirs emphasizes the pain of the animals, which are personalized. The order “alter calf to veal” (line 13) also shows the power of people, who can enjoy everything, including lights, a knife for an animal’s tripe, and charcuterie, where animal meat is sold. The menu “lists the recent dead in French” (line 18) exposes the fact that people have been killing animals for food. The line “Death moves in the bowels” (line 20) makes the reader vomit. Finally, the speaker says “You are what you eat” (line 20) to directly criticize human beings as equal to animals, and meanwhile shows the speaker’s opposition towards people who eat animal meat. This obvious criticism of species-ism not only calls on people’s sympathy for the animals being eaten by human beings, but also calls for people to stop consumption of animal meat for food. With “A Healthy Meal”, the poet describes the pain of animals, fated to be killed and eaten by human beings, and exposes human being’s crime of killing and eating animals. According to Greta Gaard (1993), it’s not proper for animal meat to become food for human beings, especially for the purpose of nutrition. As for other reasons for vegetarianism, or eating no animal meat, she listed the following: first, vegetarianism can reduce the grain used to feed animals so as to feed more people in the world; two, vegetarianism can reduce ecological destruction caused by the increasing animal agriculture; three, vegetarianism can reduce chances of diseases in human beings caused by meat-based diet; four, vegetarianism can reduce animals’ sufferings and their loss of life to provide human beings as food. Therefore, it is not only unhealthy, but also unethical and unsympathetic. Nor is it ecological-friendly for animal meat to be taken as food for human beings. The poem “A Healthy Meal” exposes human brutality in killing and eating animals as an unsympathetic behavior, which is criticized as an ethical problem, a bloody crime, torturing animals to death, and turning human beings into animals themselves at the same time.